# farsight-replication
A replication of the results in FarSight: Long-Term Disease Prediction Using Unstructured Clinical Nursing Notes (TUSHAAR GANGAVARAPU et al, 2021)

# Replication instructions
Running this notebook sequentially will replicate exactly all of the data transformation, feature modeling, and experiments reported in our paper. It will also take several days to complete as most of the non ETL actions are very computationally costly. In a [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1sf-_zAuShyBt04yN_m4tlLJ74Mcfmtcs?usp=sharing) we have provided .pkl files of the features generated by the ETL and subsequent feature creation processes. To generate the .pkl files yourself, you will need access to the MIMIC III dataset, and to set up a directory structure as specified in the ETL section. The feature generation processes and subsequent experiments and their results are divided up into sections in the Jupyter Notebook File, please use the Table of Contents to navigate to the section of interest. One step from the process was impossible to include in the notebook, which is the disambiguation of medical abbreviations using Goggle Research's "Deciphering Clinical Abbreviations with a privacy protecting machine learning system". The steps to perform this disambiguation and processing of the text that we performed can be found in the code repository corresponding to that paper.

# Repository Description
In this project we replicate and improve upon the results in FarSight: Long-Term Disease Prediction Using Unstructured Clinical Nursing Notes. We train 5 different neural networks to predict the ICD9 diagnosis code corresponding to a patient based off of a variety of different features extracted from the raw text of clinical nursing notes. These feature extraction techniques include doc2vec, NMF of BoW representations of the nursing notes, NMF of Term Weighted transforms of BoW representations of the unrsing notes, and NMF on the previous two representations with Semantic Coherence calcualtions of the topics. 

## [Google Drive of Pickle Files](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1sf-_zAuShyBt04yN_m4tlLJ74Mcfmtcs?usp=sharing)
